>> Mike North: So
the next thing am gonna do is obtain
a reference to the type checker.
The type checker,
which is part of the compile,
it is what takes all of the types and
the interface you create.
And the abstract syntax tree which is
the in memory representation of your code,
right?
All of the functions and
the arguments and everything and
it binds them together and identifies
what is going to actually typed check.
What is going to work?
Make sure everything is type equivalent.
So it's gonna be the source of a lot of
the information that we're gonna use to
log out documentation.
We're just gonna log it to the console
to keep things nice and simple.
Next, we'll use the type checker to
obtain the TypeScript symbol and
the symbol is something that
can be imported or exported.
It's something with a name,
remember you have three slots on a symbol,
value, type, and namespace,
that's what we are working with here.
And each file is associated with one.
So we are going to take all of our files,
iterate over them, and
for each file,
we're going to ask the symbol, sorry,
ask the checker for
the symbol at the location of that file.
This is just the way you get,
we're effectively using the language
server a little bit here.
We're saying, we're querying
the checker saying, here's a location.
It is character zero in the file,
basically.
Give me whatever the tool tip would
be there, like what is the symbol?
And then we're filtering out
anything that might be undefined.
If there was a compile error of some sort,
or something was really wrong with one of
our declaration files, some files might
not be associated with the symbol.
If they couldn't successfully type
check and we had our TypeScript
settings really relaxed,
some of these might come back like,
I can't give you anything for
this, it's just gone.
>> Mike North: So now we have symbols,
>> Mike North: And I'm just
gonna uncomment this block here and we'll
just kinda walk through it's step by step.
>> Mike North: Actually,
let's try it out incrementally.
So I'm just going to
logout each symbols name.
We'll start there, that's a good start.
>> Mike North: Okay, so this is giving
us basically the same thing as before.
Let me just make sure my other
console log is gone, and it is.
So this must be producing
this output down here.
A symbol associated with a file,
it's name, is gonna be part of that file.
So if the file has exports,
we will enter this branch here.
So let's try to compile that and run it.
>> Mike North: And we're just,
symbol has a property called exports, and
I'm just grabbing that
right off of the symbol.
Looks like it does have exports,
so let's iterate over the exports.
Their type happens to be something called
an UnderscoreEscapeMap, it's a dictionary.
>> Mike North: Sorry for
all the scrolling,
it's just I wanna reveal this bit
by bit so we can all follow along.
So we're gonna iterate over the export.
And for each export,
we're gonna log out its name and
use this technique with a type
checker to obtain its type.
This is the exact same thing we
used to get each file's symbol,
getSymbolAtLocation, getTypeAtLocation.
So this will give us a type, and then
this is typeToString, self-explanatory.
Let's see what this looks like.
>> Mike North: Here we go, there's the
name of the symbol that's this right here.
And then this prints out this string,
which looks a lot like what
we're seeing in our tool tips.
Now, there are couple steps involved here,
but really, once we create our program,
get ahold of a file,
we can start accessing all its exports and
figure out which one are functions and
start checking on their arguments.
At some point today,
I got a question about JSDoc tags.
I think you asked it, Chase,
where you wondered is this part of what
the TypeScript is parsing or is it
VS Code just adding it to a tool type?
It turns out TypeScript understand
these JSDoc tags, so here's our value.
It's got a method called getjsDocTags and
the rest of this is just getting
it into a form where we can
easily see it in the console,
>> Mike North: And there we go.
So these correspond to
the comments in that code.
Let me open up the code just so
we can compare what's being logged out,
there you go.
There's another way, like property we
could access to see this string up here.
But this looks a lot like what
we're logging out on the bottom.
So if you were interested in checking
your code to make sure that nobody's
accessing this old version of some library
or if you wanted to make sure that
nobody's, you wanted to build
a custom linting rule of some sort,
where you need to understand how all
of this code is assembled together.
TypeScript is a great tool for that,
because it understands JavaScript and
TypeScript equally well.
And you get these pretty reasonable
data structures out that
you can iterate over and crawl through and
use it for something like this.